
Bread Flour: While you can use all-purpose flour in this recipe, I strongly recommend using 
bread flour. Just like when we make olive bread, bread flour produces a stronger, chewier bread 
and that makes a big difference in recipe with only 3 other ingredients.

Instant Yeast: Instant yeast is key in this recipe. While you can use active dry if that’s all 
you have, any quick rise or instant yeast will produce flavorful results in less time. 
I use more yeast in this recipe compared to my cranberry nut no-knead bread 
and no-knead jalapeño cheddar bread. Why? Those doughs rest and rise at room temperature. 
However, for more flavor and just as much rise, I use more yeast and let the this dough rest 
in the refrigerator. (Cool air slows the fermentation process.)

Salt: You can’t make good bread without salt and for best flavor, I recommend a coarse salt,
 such as coarse sea salt. I find the bread’s flavor lacking with regular table salt.
Water: I normally encourage you to use warm liquid with yeast because warm liquid helps the yeast 
work faster. However, use cool or room temperature water here. Not freezing cold, 
not super warm– cool to touch. 70°F (21°C) is great, but the exact temperature doesn’t matter as 
long as it’s not hot or warm. The cooler the water, the longer the dough takes to rise and, 
usually, the better the bread’s flavor. (This is important since there are so little ingredients 
to add substantial flavor!) We use the same cool water method for no knead honey oat bread.

STEP 1
Sift the plain flour into a large bowl or the largest bowl of a food processor. Add the diced butter and either rub in with your fingertips, or, if using a food processor, pulse until until the mixture resembles fine breadcrumbs. Add the salt and mix again.

STEP 2
Gradually add the liquid by starting with 1 tbsp milk or water, then adding a little more until the mixture comes together to form a dough.

STEP 3
Tip the mixture onto a surface and gently bring it together with your hands, then shape into a disc.

STEP 4
Wrap in cling film and chill for at least 20 minutes before using.

